# Pizza-Management-App
Pizza Management app using ASP.NET Core Razor Pages, .NET and C#. <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/create-razor-pages-aspnet-core/">link</a>

Create a web UI with ASP.NET Core with Razor pages: Pizza Inventory Management Page<br>
<ul>
  <li>Benefits of Razor Pages: <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/create-razor-pages-aspnet-core/2-why-when-use-razor-pages">link</a>
    <ul>
      <li>Razor Pages is a server-side, page-centric programming model for building web UI with ASP.NET Core.</li>
      <li>Easy setup for dynamic web apps using HTML, CSS, and C#.</li>
      <li>Organized files by feature for easier maintenance.</li>
      <li>Combines markup with server-side C# code using Razor syntax.</li>
      <li>Razor Pages utilize Razor for embedding server-based code into webpages. Razor syntax combines HTML and C# to define the dynamic rendering logic. This means you can use C# variables and methods within your HTML markup to generate dynamic web content on the server at runtime.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>ContosoPizza folder: The project is an ASP.NET Core web app created using the ~<code>dotnet new webapp</code> command.
    <ul>
      <li>A Models folder was added to the project.
        <ul>
          <li>The model folder contains a Pizza class that represents a pizza.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>A Data folder was added to the project.
        <ul>
          <li>The data folder contains a PizzaContext class that represents the database context. It inherits from the DbContext class from Entity Framework Core. Entity Framework Core is an object-relational mapper (ORM) that makes it easier to work with databases.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>A Services folder was added to the project.
        <ul>
          <li>The services folder contains a PizzaService class that exposes methods to list and add pizzas.</li>
          <li>The PizzaService class uses the PizzaContext class to read and write pizzas to the database.</li>
          <li>The class is registered for dependency injection in Program.cs</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    <ul>
  </li>
  <li>Entity Framework Core generated a few things, too:
    <ul>
      <li>A Migrations folder was generated.
        <ul>
          <li>The migrations folder contains code to create the database schema.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>The SQLite database file ContosoPizza.db was generated.
        <ul>
          <li>If you have the SQLite extension installed (or you're using GitHub Codespaces), you can view the database by right-clicking the file and selecting Open Database. The database schema is shown in the SQLite Explorer tab of the Explorer pane.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Project structure that was generated by the <code>dotnet new webapp</code> command.
    <ul>
      <li>Pages/
        <ul>
          <li>Contains Razor Pages and supporting files. Each Razor page has a .cshtml file and a .cshtml.cs PageModel class file.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>wwwroot/
        <ul>
          <li>Contains static asset files like HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>ContosoPizza.csproj
        <ul>
          <li>Contains project configuration metadata, such as dependencies.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Program.cs
        <ul>
          <li>Serves as the app's entry point and configures app behavior, like routing.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Razor page files and their paired PageModel class file
        <ul>
          <li>Razor pages are stored in the Pages directory. As noted above, each Razor page has a .cshtml file and a .cshtml.cs PageModel class file. The PageModel class allows separation of a Razor page's logic and presentation, defines page handlers for requests, and encapsulates data properties and logic scoped to its Razor page.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Compare the rendered home page to Pages/Index.cshtml in the IDE:
    <ul>
      <li>Observe the combination of HTML, Razor Syntax, and C# code in the file.
        <ul>
          <li>Razor Syntax is denoted by <code>@</code> characters.</li>
          <li>C# code is enclosed in <code>@{ }</code> blocks. Take note of the directives at the top of the file:</li>
          <li>The <code>@page</code> directive specifies that this file is a Razor page.</li>
          <li>The <code>@model</code> directive specifies the model type for the page (in this case, <code>IndexModel</code>, which is defined in Pages/Index.cshtml.cs).</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Review the C# code block.
        <ul>
          <li>The code sets the value of the <code>Title</code> item within the <code>ViewData</code> dictionary to "Home page".</li>
          <li>The <code>ViewData</code> dictionary is used to pass data between the Razor page and the <code>IndexModel</code> class.</li>
          <li>At runtime, the <code>Title</code> value is used to set the page's title element.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Add a new Razor Page.
    <ul>
      <li>Create the Pizza List Page
        <ul>
          <li>Open another terminal by right-clicking on the ContosoPizza folder in the Explorer and select Open in Integrated Terminal.</li>
          <li>~<code>dotnet new page --name PizzaList --namespace ContosoPizza.Pages --output Pages</code> to create files in the ContosoPizza.Pages namespace.
            <ul>
              <li>PizzaList.cshtml—The Razor page</li>
              <li>PizzaList.cshtml.cs—The accompanying PageModel class</li>
            </ul> 
          </li>
          <li>Update pizza list page</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Add the Pizza List page to the navigation menu.
        <ul>
          <li>Open Pages/Shared/_Layout.cshtml.</li>
          <li>Add new list element to navbar.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Register the PizzaService class with the dependency injection container
        <ul>
          <li>The Pizza List page depends on the <code>PizzaService</code> object to retrieve the list of pizzas. Neew to use dependency injection to provide the <code>PizzaService</code> object to the page. In order to do that, need to register the <code>PizzaService</code> class with the container.</li>
          <li>Open Program.cs. Add the <code>PizzaService</code> to the container.</li>
          <li>This code registers the <code>PizzaService</code> class with the dependency injection container. The <code>AddScoped</code> method indicates that a new <code>PizzaService</code> object should be created for each HTTP request. Now the <code>PizzaService</code> can be injected into any Razor page.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Display a list of pizzas.
        <ul>
          <li>Modify the <code>PageModel</code> class for the Pizza List page to retrieve the list of pizzas from the <code>PizzaService</code> object and store it in a property.</li>
          <li>Open Pages/PizzaList.cshtml.cs.</li>
          <li>Add <code>using</code> statements to import the <code>Pizza</code> model and <code>PizzaService</code> service.</li>
          <li>A private readonly <code>PizzaService</code> named <code>_service</code> is created. This variable will hold a reference to a <code>PizzaService</code> object.
            <ul>
              <li>The <code>readonly</code> keyword indicates that the value of the <code>_service</code> variable can't be changed after it's set in the constructor.</li>
            </ul>     
          </li>
          <li>A <code>PizzaList</code> property is defined to hold the list of pizzas.
            <ul>
              <li>The <code>IList &lt;Pizza&gt;</code> type indicates that the <code>PizzaList</code> property will hold a list of <code>Pizza</code> objects.</li>
              <li><code>PizzaList</code> is initialized to <code>default!</code> to indicate to the compiler that it will be initialized later, so null safety checks aren't required.</li>
            </ul>     
          </li>
          <li>The constructor accepts a <code>PizzaService</code> object.
            <ul>
              <li>The <code>PizzaService</code> object is provided by dependency injection.</li>
            </ul>     
          </li>
          <li>An <code>OnGet</code> method is defined to retrieve the list of pizzas from the <code>PizzaService</code> object and store it in the <code>PizzaList</code> property.   
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Display the list of pizzas
        <ul>
          <li>Open Pages/PizzaList.cshtml.</li>
          <li>Add code.</li>
        </ul> 
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Tag helpers and page handlers <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/create-razor-pages-aspnet-core/5-tag-helpers-page-handlers">link</a></li>
  <li>Add new pizza form <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/create-razor-pages-aspnet-core/6-exercise-add-new-pizza-form">link</a>
    <ul>
      <li>Add a form to create new pizzas</li>
      <li>Add a page handler to delete pizzas.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<!--
<ul>
  <li></li>
</ul>
-->